Enterprise v0.25 Docs + Release Notes (#335)
astronomer/docs: enterprise/v0.25/06_manage-astronomer/04_configure-nfs.md

---
title: "Configure NFS Volume-based DAG Deployment"

> navTitle: "Configure NFS Volumes"

Reviewer: Going back and forth on the title. Should it be something closer to "Deploy Code via x"? Wondering how we'll frame this/position it next to the "Deploy via CLI" doc.

description: "How to push DAGs to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer using an external NFS Volume."
---

## Overview

> Starting in Astronomer Enterprise v0.25, you can use an external NFS Volume to deploy DAGs to an Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in Astronomer Enterprise v0.25, you can use an external NFS Volume to deploy DAGs to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.
```

Reviewer: Tbh I don't know what NFS means, lol - might be nice to specify 👀  Or just more generally maybe 1 sentence on what a "volume" even is and what this method is doing under the hood, for context?

> Unlike [deploying DAGs via the CLI](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli.), deploying DAGs to an NFS volume does not require rebuilding your Airflow Deployment. When a DAG is added to an NFS volume, it automatically appears in your Deployment without any further build steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike [deploying DAGs via the Astronomer CLI](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/deploy/deploy-cli.), deploying DAGs to an NFS volume does not require rebuilding a Docker image and thus restarting the underlying Airflow service. When a DAG is added to an NFS volume, it automatically appears in the Airflow UI without requiring additional action or causing downtime.
```

This guide provides the necessary setup for connecting an NFS volume to Astronomer as a DAG deployment option. Some considerations before completing this setup:

> - NFS volumes are used only for DAG deploys. To add dependencies or other requirements to your Deployment, you still need to rebuild your image via the CLI as described in [Customize Images](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/develop/customize-image).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NFS volumes are used only for DAG deploys. To add dependencies or other requirements to your Deployment, you still need to set them in your `requirements.txt` and `packages.txt` files and rebuild your image via the CLI as described in [Customize Images](/docs/enterprise/v0.25/develop/customize-image).
```

- DAGs must be deployed directly to NFS volumes. They cannot be deployed via the Astronomer CLI or an Astronomer service account.

> ## Step 1: Enable the Feature on Your Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Enable the Feature on Astronomer
```

On Astronomer? 🤷‍♀️

NFS Volume deployment is not enabled by default. To enable it on your platform, update your `config.yaml` file with the following values:

```yaml
houston:
  config:
      deployments:
        configureDagDeployment: true
        nfsMountDagDeployment: true
```

Once you have saved the file, push the configuration change to your platform as described in [Apply a Platform Configuration Change on Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.23/manage-astronomer/apply-platform-config).

## Step 2: Provision an NFS Volume

Any NFS volume can be used for this step as long as it has:

* A directory for DAGS.
* Read access for a user with GID `50000` and UID `50000`

> We recommend using a GCP Filestore instance for your NFS Volume. For more information on configuring a Filestore instance, read the [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/creating-instances).

Reviewer: Awesome we have an example in here - think this makes it come to life. For non-GCP users, what do we recommend? For AWS is it an S3 bucket?

Author: I think bucket-based Deployment is a separate feature that's coming in a future release. The equivalent here would be [EFS Storage](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/eks-persistent-storage/), but I'm not sure whether we've tested with that yet or not. Was gonna ask about this during tech review.

## Step 3: Connect the NFS Volume to Astronomer

1. In the Astronomer UI, create a new Airflow Deployment or open an existing one.
2. In the **Settings** tab, go to **Mechanism**.
2. Select **NFS Volume Mount**.
3. In the **NFS Location** field that appears, enter the location of your volume-based DAG directory as `<IP>:/<path>` (for example: `192.168.0.1:/path/to/your/dags`).
4. Save your changes to the Deployment.

> 

Reviewer: Screenshot?
